= zootool

Provides a ruby wrapper around the Zootool API http://zootool.com/api.

Zootool is about collecting, organizing and sharing your favorite images, videos, documents and links from all over the internet. This gem gives you a simple and easy way to access everything Zootool from your ruby projects. You can see it in action in the wild at http://ryanmauer.com.

== Installation

  $ gem install zootool
  
== Usage

Using this gem is simple. You simply create a ZooApi object:

  require 'zootool'

  # You'll access everything through a ZooApi object
  zoo = Zootool::ZooApi.new('your_api_key_here')

And use its users, item, and items methods to access data from Zootool:

  # Get items for a specific user. Returns an array of hashes with each hash representing an item.
  my_items = zoo.users('rmauer').items
  
  # Get items for all users. Returns an array of hashes.
  all_items = zoo.users.items
  
  # Get a single item by its uid. This returns a single hash.
  an_item = zoo.item('1kf7s')
  
  # Gets the most popular items today.
  popular_today = zoo.items.popular('today')
  
Each of these methods returns either an array of hashes or a single hash (see the method documentation for more details on what is returned and what keys the hashes contain).

== More Examples

If you learn by example, this should show you pretty much everything you need to know to start using this gem: 

  require 'zootool'
  
  # You'll access everything through a ZooApi object
  zoo = Zootool::ZooApi.new('your_api_key_here')
  
  # Example queries
  my_items = zoo.users('rmauer').items
  my_info = zoo.users('rmauer').info
  my_friends = zoo.users('rmauer').friends
  my_followers = zoo.users('rmauer').followers
  my_inspiration_items = zoo.users('rmauer').items(:tag => 'inspiration')
  all_inspiration_items = zoo.users.items(:tag => 'inspiration')
  paged_items = zoo.users.items(:limit => 10, :offset => 20)
  popular_today = zoo.items.popular('today')

  # Using the returned data
  first_title = popular_today[0]['title']
  first_thumb = popular_today[0]['thumbnail']

== Features

* Query items by user
* Query items for all users
* Query popular items 
* Query items by tag
* Perform paging of items using limit and offset parameters
* Access user info, friends, followers, and profiles

== Planned Features

* Authentication to allow access to private items

== Contributing to zootool
 
* Check out the latest master to make sure the feature hasn't been implemented or the bug hasn't been fixed yet
* Check out the issue tracker to make sure someone already hasn't requested it and/or contributed it
* Fork the project
* Start a feature/bugfix branch
* Commit and push until you are happy with your contribution
* Make sure to add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a future version unintentionally.
* Please try not to mess with the Rakefile, version, or history. If you want to have your own version, or is otherwise necessary, that is fine, but please isolate to its own commit so I can cherry-pick around it.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2011 Ryan Mauer. See LICENSE.txt for
further details.

